I may just be a little bit addicted to

video game secrets, and I certainly love

Mass Effect enough to do another video

detailing 10 of the secrets that can be

found within the trilogy. While the last

Mass Effect secrets list didn't do

amazingly on the views front, at least

compared to what I'm acclimatized to

with Red Dead Redemption 2,

I don't really care. This franchise is

just fun to make content on, and there

were plenty of people in the comments of

that video and the Skyrim secrets video

asking me to continue making at least

some form of Mass Effect content. So,

for that handful of people, consider

this video dedicated to you. But, it's

also certainly in part dedicated to my

love for Mass Effect. So, please enjoy

10 Mass Effect secrets many players

missed, part two.

The first secret, and truth be told, a

couple others thereafter, take us to

Earth's very own moon.

The moon.

Or as Mass Effect refers to it, Luna.

It's here where you can contemplate

humanity's insignificance against the

dark backdrop of space in all its

terrifying vastness. Our first secret is

CCCP Luna 23, which can be found west of

the drop zone. Luna 23 was an unmanned

Soviet moon lander mission, which took

place in the mid-1970s,

intended to return a sample of the

moon's rocks to Earth. However, its

sample collecting apparatus was

inoperable due to what's believed to be

a harsher than anticipated landing that

caused the spacecraft to topple over,

and thus no sample was ever collected,

and Luna 23 would simply be forgotten

about and left on the moon. Mass Effect

1 takes place in the year 2183,

209 years after Luna 23's mission in

1974.

Of course, you can collect resources

from it, but besides that, it's just a

nice little nod to real history. There's

something disquieting about seeing this

unmanned spacecraft abandoned on the

moon, and it certainly adds to the

atmosphere.

Whilst we're on the moon, we can

actually find secret number two, though

it's not the only place where this can

be heard.

Through the silence of space, you can

hear some peculiar sounds.

If you heard it, it sounds like some

form of animal song. It's believed these

songs are associated with Mass Effect's

not-so-extinct Rachni. These sounds can

be heard at specific points on various

different planets and celestial bodies

besides. On Luna, it's right by the down

CCCP

Luna 23 probe. That's not to say the

Rachni are present on the moon,

and sound doesn't travel through space

as there are no particles, so there's no

way for it to do so. All that being

said, Rachni communicate via pheromones

and organic quantum entanglement that

allows communications to transmit across

the galaxy instantaneously. Whether or

not these sounds were intended to be the

Rachni is unknown, but they certainly

are unsettling.

Secret number three is also on the moon

in Mass Effect 1, and that is the

origins of EDI. Whilst playing through

the game, we may receive a communication

from Admiral Hackett telling us about a

rogue VI that has taken over an Alliance

training ground located on Luna. When we

arrive at the Alliance training

facility, we must shut the VI down from

three bunkers. However, it will put up a

fierce fight in its defense sending

various drones to stop you from turning

it off. Upon successfully deactivating

the rogue VI, we will receive this

transcript. A burst of white noise over

all frequencies nearly deafens you. Your

hard suit's heads-up display interprets

it into a series of zeros and ones. They

repeat again and again, blanketing all

frequencies until the lights of the

final VI cuts to flicker and die. And

what does that binary code translate to?

Help.

It appears as if the VI had become

self-aware. No longer a virtual

intelligence, it had become an

artificial intelligence. In Mass Effect

2, it will be alluded to that this

incident occurred in an experiment to

create a controllable AI. And Mass

Effect 3 will confirm that this rogue VI

on Luna would be modified with

technology salvaged from Sovereign, a

Reaper, to create EDI.

Here's what we recovered. Smart enough

to signal for help, but it won't be

talking philosophy anytime soon.

You'd be surprised, Doctor.

Once we combine it with the pieces we

recovered from the Citadel

I'm still concerned about that. This

rogue VI wiped out every soldier on

Luna. Combining it with Reaper tech,

well

That's what the shackles are for. The

enhanced defense intelligence will be

completely under control.

You were that rogue VI on Luna?

Yes.

I guess we didn't exactly get off on the

right foot.

It was difficult. Gaining awareness

while under attack was confusing. I am

pleased that my relationship with

organics has become more cooperative.

Secret number four takes us to the lair

of the Shadow Broker DLC for Mass Effect

2, where once aboard the Shadow Broker's

base at the end of the expansion, when

the mysterious Shadow Broker has been

defeated and replaced by Liara T'Soni,

we can head over there and view a video

archive.

This archive shows some interesting

things from Aria T'Loak having somebody

executed, reporter Emily Wong having a

right bogey on the Citadel, some sad

bastard threatening a mirror in a public

bathroom, Donnel Udina enacting

violence, Captain Bailey being Captain

Bailey, and Anderson mysteriously

meeting up with a Cerberus agent of some

description. Not that this seemingly

clandestine meet is ever touched down

upon again. We also get to watch some

Vorcha die via means of grenade, and

that annoying reporter who we can punch

in the face in literally every single

game being punched in the face

by a Krogan. Then there's a dead Krogan

on the Citadel with a keeper walking

away from him, and a Salarian being

executed via means of Varren on

Tuchanka. Elias Kelham running someone

over, Jacob Taylor doing sit-ups, Jack

using her immense biotic ability to

escape Purgatory, and one more that ties

into the next secret, so I'll save

mentioning it for then. I suppose the

Shadow Broker can spy on anyone in the

galaxy and it would be incredibly

difficult to hide information from them.

And it's cool that we can use that

terminal to get a little snippet into

just how much power the Shadow Broker

holds.

Secret number five. Liara T'Soni's

father. In Mass Effect 2, you can meet

an Asari matriarch serving as a

bartender on Illium. You'll think

nothing of it at first, but this is

actually Liara's father, later confirmed

by the Shadow Broker's base video

archive in which the matriarch named

Aethyta can be seen pondering over a

photograph of Liara. In 3, once you

interact with Liara on the Citadel and

come back, matriarch Aethyta can be

found at the Apollo Cafe. It is here

where she'll spill the beans about being

Liara's father. As Liara is a

pure-blooded Asari,

both know who the other is. Liara is,

after all, the Shadow Broker by this

point. It's here where you can convince

Liara and her father, matriarch Aethyta,

to finally meet.

Secret number six. If you don't romance

Tali or Garrus, then towards the end of

Mass Effect 3, you will catch them

romancing each other.

Oh.

Uh we were just uh

I I well I I I just uh I came to say

goodbye and well

Uh

I I think one of my mandibles got hooked

on her helmet.

It might have caused a rupture, so I I

asked him to check.

Well, you know, because of uh infection

risks. Didn't want to jeopardize the

mission.

So

I'm really happy for you.

Both of you.

Thanks, Shepard.

I appreciate it. Guess it helps to have

something to come back to.

What do you mean to come back to? This

is just a fling, Vakarian. I'm using you

for your body.

You're so mean.

And I'm okay with that.

Secret number seven. If you romance

Kelly Chambers in Mass Effect 2, you've

made an interesting choice for sure. But

if you do this, you can meet her again

in Mass Effect 3.

In 3, you can meet Kelly Chambers in the

Citadel's refugee camp. She will explain

why she can't rejoin you aboard the

Normandy in wake of Mass Effect 2's

endings and the trauma she experienced

by the hand of the Collectors. You can

convince her to change her identity,

however, so Cerberus doesn't find her.

And if you don't do this, you will read

about her death after the Cerberus

attack on the Citadel. If you do, she'll

be grateful for you saving her life.

Secret number eight. Commander Shepard's

biggest fan. In Mass Effect 1, you may

come across an idiot named Conrad

Verner. He seems harmless. He wants

Shepard's validation and is seemingly a

fan of the human Spectre. In 2, he can

be found on Ilium dressed in fake N7

armor causing a nuisance at the bar. And

you can deal with him however which way.

In 3, he's just as dumb as ever. Giving

Conrad the time of day consistently in

Mass Effect 1, 2, and 3 does in the end

pay off. If you miss one encounter,

he'll never show up again. This is with

purpose though. Within almost every

Conrad line somewhere is a fourth wall

break, even if just subtly poking fun at

either Mass Effect's mechanics or other

RPGs.

In short, Conrad Verner is Mass Effect's

very own Ma'iq the Liar.

Do you have any actual combat training?

I'm saving the galaxy, Shepard. I don't

have time for training. Don't you get

it? You were a big jerk, but you saved

the galaxy and showed other races that

humans mattered.

And then you died.

The galaxy needed someone like you,

Shepard. We all did.

I had to do something.

How did you get that armor?

Oh, they make some pretty convincing

replicas these days if you're willing to

pay.

Getting the whole getup was pretty

expensive, but my wife was really

supportive. She even paid for my shuttle

fare off-world.

So, you just wander the galaxy righting

wrongs?

Hey, don't say it like that. I talk to

people, you know? Ask them if they have

big problems that only I can solve.

You'd be surprised how many people are

just waiting for someone to talk to

them.

Sometimes I poke through crates, too.

You know, for extra credit.

Number nine, pigeons on the Citadel. The

Citadel is a massive space station city

far from Earth and yet there are pigeons

here. How is this possible? Thankfully,

the VI Avina is here to explain.

The place feels familiar.

Sounds, smells.

It's like being back on Earth.

The current decoration budget was

approved by Ambassador Asoba, the human

representative for Earth on the Citadel.

Each species granted ambassadorial

rights on the Citadel can apply for a

slot on the decoration schedule to

change the promenade and parks below.

The only condition is that the proposed

environmental features not be toxic to

species living on the Citadel.

So, apparently species represented in

Citadel space can introduce certain

native flora and fauna from their home

planets to the Citadel space station,

which strikes me as a little risky, but

also somewhat weird. Humans don't even

like pigeons all that much. Why would

humanity introduce what's considered to

be a pest species to the Citadel? Also,

who's going about on Earth gathering up

pigeons to ship them across the galaxy

to this place? At what point does that

venture become a priority? Secret number

10, the legendary refund guy. In Mass

Effect 1, you can see a man trying

adamantly to obtain a refund. You can

also find him in Mass Effect 2

attempting the same thing. And finally,

in three, you can intervene and either

help him get his refund or discourage

the refund. A whole 15 credits.

He fought for three long years

for 15 credits refund.

He kind of reminds me of my dad. And

that brings us to the end of today's

video on 10 more Mass Effect secrets

many players missed. So, it's kind of a

part two,

isn't it? Thank you all for watching

this video. I hope you enjoyed. Be sure

to go ahead and leave a like, subscribe,

share the channel with your friends, and

all that wonderful stuff. That would be

super awesome. And of course, be sure to

go ahead and hit subscribe to Decades,

my new history channel, which you can

find via a link in the description. And

with any luck, I'll be seeing you all

very soon with another video at some

point. But until next time, take care

and goodbye.


