The Turian Hierarchy is a rigid 27-tier

meritocratic state and the primary

military power of the Citadel Council,

but what do we know about Turian

civilization before they discovered the

other Council species? Greetings,

spacefarers. I'm Michael, and welcome to

MT Jdisorder's Mass Effect Lore. As with

a lot of deep lore in the Mass Effect

universe, there is remarkably very

little known about this proud and

fiercely loyal culture prior to the

events of the games, but we are going to

do our very best to put together as

precise a picture as we possibly can.

This is our exploration into the early

history of the Turian Hierarchy.

On the third planet of the star system

Trebia, a world that would one day

become known as Palaven, there rose to

prominence the avian-like species, the

Turians. Evolving to withstand the

intense radiation received due to

Palaven's weak magnetic field, the

Turians likely faced very little in the

way of competing predators and assumed

dominance of their world relatively

quickly. There's a unique resilience to

the Turians born out of the fact that

they are a dextro-based organism in a

galaxy dominated by levo-based life, and

it is this adversity that probably

caused their entire culture to develop

upon this idea that nothing was ever

handed to them and everything is earned.

Before the dawn of their civilization

over 50,000 years ago, they were known

to elder spacefaring species such as the

Protheans, but were considered too

primitive and of no concern to the

empire. As a result, they would survive

the Reaper harvest of that cycle. Though

there is no timeline indicating when

early Turians began forming tribes and

crafting tools, the earliest signs of

them developing a more sophisticated

civilization appear to have taken hold

sometime around 13,000 BCE. The English

translations of Turian nouns suggest the

proto-hierarchy's formation as being

very similar to that of imperialist

humans such as the Romans. Though this

would likely in-universe be nothing more

than a coincidence, the Mass Effect

writers clearly intended for this

parallel. It's just a theory, but I like

to think that just as it did on Earth,

many civilizations would have risen and

fallen several times throughout

Palaven's history, but inevitably

unchecked imperialism must have taken a

foothold as by the time they took their

first steps into the stars, the Turians

had already a unified global culture.

This culture was built upon hierarchical

meritocracy, a form of governance that

had an extremely high potential for

misuse. This was, however, seemingly

tempered by a strong sense of civic duty

and personal responsibility that had

been instilled in all Turians from a

very young age. Military service was not

just mandatory, it was considered the

highest form of merit and every Turian

yearned for the opportunity to represent

and defend the hierarchy. It may have

its critics, but in this case it created

a strong foundation for a society that

was wholly united under a single cause.

This wouldn't last, however, as by 500

BCE the Turians had already mastered

spaceflight and pushed beyond their home

star system, discovering several mass

relays and establishing new colonies.

The speed with which the Turians spread

throughout their neighboring star

clusters meant that the hierarchy's

influence over them spread thin and very

soon the local chieftains of these

colonies, known as Primarchs, began

distancing themselves and seeking

autonomy. Without the galvanizing

influence of the central government,

each colony became increasingly isolated

and xenophobic. Colonists even began

wearing emblems or facial markings to

differentiate themselves from members of

other colonies and eventually open

hostilities became common. This

hostility between colonies would

inevitably result in open conflicts and

in around 300 BCE war would officially

break out, marking the beginning of the

unification wars. The hierarchy

officially remained neutral in the early

stages, maintaining a strict policy of

diplomacy and refusing to get involved

militarily. Though much of these

conflicts were usually sparked out of

nationalistic pride, they almost always

ended up being fought over disputed

territory and as the years passed with

very little progress being [music] made,

the collateral damage began to rise

significantly as the number of remaining

factions began to drop. With no end to

the violence in sight and apparently no

real demands outside of give me all your

territory, the hierarchy had no choice

but to intervene or the loss of Turian

life would undoubtedly continue. After

years of fighting, the Primarch

chieftains were too weak to resist and

support from their own people likely

subsided. When an offer to the fire was

extended, they were forced to put an end

to any conflicts and renew their

allegiance to the hierarchy. Though

peace was restored, it did take several

decades for animosity between colonists

to fade completely. To this day, most

Turians still wear the facial markings

of their home colonies. The lack of

facial markings is even looked down upon

in Turian society. The Turian term

bare-faced refers to one who is

beguiling or not to be trusted. It is

also a slang term for politicians. Once

again reunited under the banner of the

Turian hierarchy, Palaven and its

colonies slowly returned to being a

formidable prospering nation and at the

center of it all was the ever-growing

military might of the meritocracy.

Despite having no enemies to fight, the

Turian navy expanded to unfathomable

sizes, culminating in at least 32

individual fleets. The Turian war

machine, it would seem, needed no war to

keep turning. Though wars tend to have a

way of finding those built for it as a

thousand years later, around the year

704 CE, the hierarchy would achieve

first contact with an alien

civilization, a conglomerate of species

led by the Asari and the Salarians known

as the Citadel Council. The Council

welcomed the Turians with open arms and

offered immediate membership within

Citadel space. Though as the Turians

would soon find out, this offer came

with an ulterior motive.

Thanks for watching. For more Mass

Effect related content, don't forget to

like, share, and subscribe to the

channel and hit the bell notification

icon to be informed of the next video.

Also, leave us a comment below on who is

your favorite Mass Effect species.

Keelah se'lai, my friends, and until

next time. I should go.


