What do we know about Arcturus Station?

For such an essential piece of the

Alliance's infrastructure, we know

remarkably little outside of when it was

built, what its primary purpose was, and

finally its ultimate fate. So,

naturally, I'm going to attempt to break

down every last piece of information we

have on what would become the seat and

capital of the systems alliance.

Greetings, space farers. I'm Michael and

welcome to MTJ Disorders: Mass Effect

Law. When humanity first activated the

Karon relay, there was no way of knowing

what awaited on the other side. Would it

be a one-way trip? Were the pioneers of

John Gryom's bold expedition charging

heedlessly into the jaws of an

aggressive extraterrestrial empire? Or

would this mysterious key to the galaxy

simply lead nowhere? As fate would have

it, the relay connected to the

neighboring star system of Arcturus,

[music] which turned out to be free for

the taking. And as if that weren't

fortunate enough, the relay on the other

side was a nexus point for countless

other star systems and star clusters,

like some kind of interstellar highway

junction. As a result, this single star

system was a natural and defensible hub

for the fledgling alliance's aspirations

of space exploration and would become

the home of the largest endeavor in

humanity's history. This is everything

we know about Arcturus station.

At 36 lighty years from Saul, Arcturus

stands as the first truly interstellar

neighbor explored by humanity. A type K

main sequence red dwarf, it may not be

the closest star, but it is one of the

brightest in our night sky, making it an

obvious candidate for one of the Karen

relays destinations. The star is much

older than Soul and is orbited only by

lifeless gas giants and the remnants of

an asteroid belt. This would prove to be

an important factor in the Alliance's

decisions regarding how best to fortify

the system. Its value was incredibly

high due to the reach of the Arcturus

relay. Yet there were few suitable

worlds for colonization, giving rise to

the need for alternatives to establish a

permanent presence in the system. In

steps the Alliance Navy. As their

military and exploratory fleets grew, so

too did the need for a more fitting

headquarters, one located not only on

the hotbed of resources needed for

future expansion, but also in what is

now considered the most strategically

vital territory in Alliance space. Thus,

the plans were drawn up for Arcturus

station, a Stanford Taurus style space

habitat designed to accommodate both the

civilian and military branches of the

systems alliance leadership. Ground was

broken, or should I say space was

filled, on the station's construction in

2151. Though there isn't much

information about which sections were

completed first, it is safe to assume

the tooidal structure at its core was

likely one of the first, as this is

where habitats and other common areas

would probably be located. With this

self-sustaining spin station completed,

not only could preliminary executive

officers take up residence, but also the

crews and personnel required for

continuing construction. Sources such as

the codeex also point to the structure

as a reference for the station's overall

size. While much of the artwork found

online depicts the full length as 5 km,

I have also found references suggesting

this refers to the station's diameter,

indicating that the overall length is

likely twice that with the tooidal

structure itself having a diameter of 5

km. This habitat is also centered on a

central superructure, which like the

citadel tower would perhaps be best

suited for station operations,

especially in its early days. The

placement of the exterior towers and

other buildings on this section support

this and it also makes the most

strategic sense. Expansion of Arctur

station's outer arms, main docks, and

even shipyard facilities occurred

gradually over the next 11 years,

utilizing the systems many mineralrich

asteroids for construction materials. As

employment opportunities increased, many

flocked to the station over the course

of the following decade, bringing its

estimated population up to about 45,000.

Though officially inaugurated in 2156,

construction of the station would not

wrap until sometime in 2162. By then,

the alliance would have already

experienced the first contact war. The

station's tactical importance cannot be

overstated, particularly during the

relay 314 incident. Without Arctur

station, the ships and personnel

required to field the task force that

liberated Shangshi and forced the Turans

to the table would not have been

possible. From here on out, Arcter

Station became an important part of

Alliance diplomacy. After the first

contact war, General Desilus Arterius

arrived at the station to exchange

prisoners with General Williams. Among

them were Jack Harper and Eva Cororey.

Events detailed in the second issue of

Mass Effect Evolution, which I won't

spoil here. Over the next two decades,

Arcturus station grew into a symbol of

Alliance power in Council Space and

became the de facto capital and home to

the Systems Alliance Parliament. By

2183, [music]

it was the site of the first test flight

of the newly completed SSV Normandy, a

stealth frig designed in collaboration

with the Turan Hierarchy. Alliance

officers Captain Anderson and Captain

Dillard, attended the test alongside

Hierarchy official General Invectus. The

flight took an unexpected turn when

pilot Jeff Joker Maro, who was born on

Arcturus, hijacked the Normandy to prove

his skills. Trapping the ship's original

pilot on the station, Joker locked

himself in the cockpit, evaded a

scramble of patrol fighters, and

returned the ship safely to its dock.

Impressed, General Investors pressured

the Alliance to assign Joker as the

Normandy's pilot. A fortunate outcome

considering he would likely have faced a

court marshal otherwise. Speaking of

ships, Arctur station's defense appears

to be provided primarily by fleet

command. For a time, this was headed by

Admiral Steven Hackett before his

assignment to the Citadel along with the

fifth fleet. Though conflicting law

shows this was originally intended to be

Admiral Mkyovich and the first fleet's

assignment, I think it is safe to

presume the station did have its own

mounted defenses, at the very least

Guardian and anti-hship lasers, but

there really isn't much information on

this. My own personal theory is that the

station was intended to have a

state-of-the-art defensive grid, but it

was never allowed to reach its full

potential, as sadly, the excellent and

brief history of this legendary station

would come to a brutal end. In 2186, it

was the site of a decisive battle

between the Alliance's second, third,

and fifth fleets and the Reaper forces

on their way to Soul. While the Alliance

valiantly defended the station from a

dozen Reaper capital ships, the bulk of

the Reaper fleet were able to bypass the

station altogether and surged through

the mass relay towards Earth. Admiral

Hackett, realizing he couldn't possibly

win, was forced to abandon the station

and sacrifice the second fleet to allow

the third and fifth fleets to escape.

Sometime afterward, Arcturus station is

utterly destroyed. The entire Alliance

Parliament and Prime Minister Amul

Shastri were on the station at the time

of its destruction and were killed,

leaving behind nothing more than a cold

grave of over 45,000 people.

And that's all we really know. It was a

feat of human engineering the likes we

had never seen, and perhaps one of a

handful of reasons why humanity was able

to expand and achieve so much in such a

short period of time. And in an instant,

it was all gone.

Thanks for watching. For more law

content such as this, don't forget to

like, share, and subscribe to the

channel if you haven't already, and hit

the bell notification icon to be

informed of the next video. Keyless, my

friends, and until next time. I should

go.


